methodology for 2015

Group deliveries into clumps by street
    Break up clumps > 325 bags

Add clumps to get 320-330 bags per trip - favor loading extra bags on the trucks
    use google route TSP to optimize routes - but CHECK - they do lots of "right side only" or "left side only"
        http://www.routexl.com/ (allows start/stop pinning)

Estimate trip time
    15 min for load
    Drive time + 1 min/6 bags per stop

Sort by time and "Snake draft" to distribute routes

#1 driver on route time is drive time.  The Driver is a close second.

Driver ranking 2014
Crisp/Kelly
Gregor/Turner
Stalzer/Auman
Peake/Luttges
Schantz/Willhite


No QR codes for addresses

=== from Chuck ===
I would add having at least one last truck deliver to scouts homes in close proximity (Rick Willhite was on the possible list this year with 75).  If for some reason you end up short like Jeff thought might have happened easier to talk a member of the troop into a short order than any other type of customer.

== Some observations from 2014 journey: ==
Put up "no parking" cones where the mulch delivery semis need to turn near the dumpsters
No "extra bags" on the first deliveries.  Those trucks are already loaded!
Always prefer "add more bags" than "bring bags back".  Had too many loose bags this year.  I'd prefer adding 5 to 15 bags per run.  IOW, try to hit 325 rather than 315 for a 26' truck.
QR codes are unreliable because scanning apps are too different. Drop them next year
Send out the route URL to parents.  Chris Luttges did this and apparently it was awesome - scouts where at the next delivery and waiting when the truck showed up.
26' trucks - 7 pallets.  16' trucks - 4 pallets.  24' trucks - 6 pallets is safest.  I bet our skilled forklift drivers could do 7 but it'd be REALLY tight with some of those listing pallets.
Do double blind entry.  Have the money person do the data entry, write the order number on the forms, then give the order forms to the route-planning person who enters them again.  At the end, the two lists can be compared for discrepancies.

== And here are the more disruptive ideas: ==
Use the receipts as the routes.   It would be trivial for me to print out receipts instead of route pages.  The route pages would still be online, but the packet would just be a set of pre-printed receipts - when you hand it off, you're done.   Upside:  Less dead trees.  Downsides:  1)  If I get hit by a bus, that capability goes away - whatever we do should be sustainable without a geek like me mucking with code.   Not that I'm planning on getting hit by a bus.  2)  Less feedback.  This year, the navigators used the route pages for notes...that goes away if we don't give them a printed copy.
(from Bill Turner or Rick Auman) Online order with paypal.  It's possible, but it eats into the profits.  Removing money from paypal costs money.  I'd just put up a page that took an order and sent out emails when the customer submitted it.  It would be more work to compare online orders with paypal payments to match them up, however the data entry would already be done with no handwriting to decipher.  This would require a lot of coordination with the current webmaster (if it is possible at all with how it's hosted), or using an oddball url like I did for the routes (or buying a new domain name - about $11 a year)

== Greg Schantz feedback ==

to John, Marty, Terry, me, Steve
-Several people asked if we would spread it for them.  Apparently, another troop charges an extra $1.50 per bag to spread it.  Those I talked to liked that price.
- I had a patrol leader on my truck and put him in charge of organizing and leading the scouts.  He had scouts OJT with the adults performing certain tasks (talk to customer/count) and the boys soon took over much of that.  I pulled him aside several times to talk about what was happening, what he should be checking, problems identified, possible solutions- the usual leadership stuff- and he responded well and learned from it.  This seems like an opportunity next year if the SPL wants to coordinate a PL per truck and we get a ASM per truck to focus on it we can really make a lot of leadership development progress in a short amount of time.  I found it sped up the forming, storming, norming, performing process they are taught at Junior Leader Training.
- i think we also missed an opportunity with the quartermaster.  He worked the trailer some but mostly went out on a truck I think.  I think we should have allowed the SPL to assign him to run the trailer, and he could have helped with yard operations some too.  Great learning opportunity if the adults explain as they worked and made decisions.
- Get the map/address sets to the navigators 24 hours ahead of time.
- Zoom a bit more on the routes.  Couldn't read all the street names and some looked connected when they weren't.  We didn't need to see the surrounding reference points  (or make that a separate page) because we used GPS to get to whichever end of the route we were going to start.  Jeff Burbach said Jeff Hoyt had put the routes on some accessible and very useful google product but it would have most useful to us thd might before.
